# Week 6

This week I created new performance tests and visualized them in the GUI. The size of the mazes that are generated can be changed by modifying the variable called "mazeSize" in the PerformanceComparator class. Right now it is set to 3000 (creates a 3000 * 3000 maze). There are three sections:

### Maze generation tests
The program creates 10 mazes using both the recursive backtracker method and the Kruskal method. Both are run once before the actual data is gathered to make sure the code has already been compiled before the test data is gathered. The average generation time is displayed for both of the methods.

### Recursive backtracker maze solving
The program generates mazes and then lets the two solving algorithms solve them. The mazes are copied so that the solving algorithms can solve the same maze. Both the results from the individual runs as well as an average is displayed.

### Kruskal maze solving
Does the same thing as the previous one but the mazes are generated by the Kruskal maze generator.

Next week I will update the documentation. I won't have time to work on the project after thursday because of the tutor cabin event for TKO-äly's tutors so I'm not going to do any big changes to the program anymore. I will check that everything works as it should and add more Javadoc comments. I will also update the parts of the documentation that include the performance tests. I didn't have time for that this week.


| Day | Hours | What I did  |
| :----:|:-----| :-----|
|15.6|2| Added a test for the Kruskal generator and worked on the implmentation document. |
|16.6|6| Updated the implementation and testing documents. I also corrected checkstyle errors. |
|17.6|2| Checkstyle now leaves out the classes that are not supposed to be checked. |
|18.6|4| I redid the PerformanceComparator class. |
|19.6|3| I visualized the preformance test results. |
Total number of hours this week: 17
